>> Jerome Hardaway: So that Mid & Seniors.
Now, this is where you fit in, right?
It's different, what I see,
the number one problem,
especially as you get higher in your
career, you stop communicating and
networking less because
you get complacent.
In the military, we have a term,
complacency kills.
It kills in real life and
in military terms, kills careers, right?
You're sitting, you're being
complacent with your career, and
then you get laid off and you're like,
holy crap, what am I supposed to do?
Because you have not been out there
drilling the skills that pay the bills.
You haven't been making new connections.
You haven't been making
internal connections.
You come in, you do your eight hours,
you learn just-in-time skills for
whatever project you're building, and
you go home, you plot in front of the TV,
you do nothing.
So when it comes out, it hurts you, right?
First thing you should do,
whether you're looking for a job now or
you're not looking for a job,
is you should start looking and
leveraging your existing connections.
To this day, once a week,
I talk to at least two different
people that I haven't
talked to within a year.
I make it my point to go through
my LinkedIn on Sunday and
reach out on Monday to two people I
have not spoken to in at least a year.
I've been doing that for five years now.
You can do that.
That's a very small ask for
yourself to keep your network fresh.
Go talk to somebody,
send a LinkedIn message for
someone you haven't spoken to at
least a year, that's professional.
And just say, hey,
I was thinking about you.
I wanted to catch up sometime and see what
you're working on and share war stories.
It's very easy, very small ask.
When you're talking,
you're keeping your network fresh, right?
That's the first step that
you need to be doing.
Reach out to the programmers,
UX designers,
the talent that you already know, right?
And when I ask, hey,
what are you doing for work?
How it is at your place?
My place, I'm getting kinda shaky,
I might be on looking for something new.
Hey, yo, man, we got these new roles.
You get your resume and everything going.
I can refer you.
Snap, now I have a referral
that I wasn't even looking for
cuz I just talked to my network, right?
I just talked to people I already knew.
You can transition to that
product-based networking format.
For me, it builds a format
of a way of trust, right?
I like products-focused feedback
loop as my networking because it
doesn't feel as intrusive and
just sliding into DMs and
asking people for
their time just because, right?
I think that's helped me.
I have a product.
I wanna improve it.
Can I ask for your feedback for it?
Thank you for your feedback.
I'm gonna take that feedback and
iterate on it.
Now that I have that feedback,
and I'm gonna iterate on it,
I'm gonna talk to you again.
Next thing you know, three, four,
or five conversations on the end.
We're talking about,
can we get on a call sometime?
Now we get on the call.
Hey, I'd love to buy you coffee around
on this call so we can go dive deeper.
I'm networking with this person,
especially we're over Zoom.
I've sent the Starbucks gift card or
a DoorDash card.
They have DoorDash Starbucks to their
house cuz Starbucks is on DoorDash, or
I think you'll have
Carboru coffee down here.
Caribou.
Caribou, yeah, something like that.
You all can DoorDash that,
Uber Eats it, their coffee of choice.
We go from there, now we're on the Zoom,
we're talking, I'm showing them projects,
showing them code-based
stuff that I can do.
And they're like, okay,
now I'm building that rapport,
I'm building that network,
I'm pouring into it.
But you have to realize,
the best time to start that is yesterday,
the second best time is today.
Networking is not a short-person game, and
I think that's one of the things why
people are so bad at it right now.
They want that instant feedback loop.
They don't understand that it takes
years to get to the point where
you get a network of substance, right,
you get a network of influence.
When we think of influence now,
we think of followers and likes, and
then we convert those followers and
likes into marketing.
That's not what influence is.
Influence is, hey, I can call this person.
This person can help me get
my foot in the door into
this role while everybody else is hurting,
right?
There's a group that I talk to.
And one of the things that those people
have, they have that influence and
networks that they talk about,
is the survivor's guilt that
they're having in the community.
Because they know intrinsically,
regardless of what happen,
they're gonna be kinda okay cuz they
know that their network is secure.
They know that they have options.
And so whenever they feel bad for
the people that don't.
And they're like, what do I tell
the people that don't wanna do
these things that I've done,
or how do I help them, right?
I mean, that's one of the things
that we're always talking about.
How do I help people who might
not want to do this type of work?
And the only thing we can do is by
showcasing the lack of stress that it
comes to.
Yes, it sounds a lot like work.
I'm gonna spend Sunday looking
through my LinkedIn like a weirdo
to email two people that I
haven't spoken to in a year.
You don't know what opportunities those
people are giving or what conversations
you're missing, or, heaven forbid,
if those people are still around.
You might have actually
liked those people and
you don't even know if
they're still around anymore.
So you need to go to your network,
talk to people.
With Mid & Senior, your first step,
emphasizing the people that
you already know, right?
Start rebuilding those relationships,
your rapport.
Focus on your established skill set,
right?
There are people who you know think and
feel like you're pretty good at your job,
right?
Start with that, all right?
Start with those people, and
then move forward from there, right?
You wanna make it expansive, but
you want your end marketing and
sales, they call it your core 100.
You want your core 100, the people
that are gonna support you no matter
what you do, and you wanna build in
your network, your core 100, right?
That is your primary
focus when networking.
You're gonna have 5,000, 6,000 people,
but what you really need is
a core 100 in your network that are gonna
help your career no matter what.